Mr. Taylor, can you tell me your rank and
organization when you were in Vietnam? In 1966, I
was a warrant officer, helicopter pilot, the
119th Assault Helicopter Company at Pleiku,
Vietnam. My first tour ended in November 1967.
My second tour, I was a chief warrant officer with
the 101st Airborne Division at Camp Eagle, Hue,
Vietnam. from October 69 through October 70. In
1971, I was on temporary duty at Fan Rang for a few
days. I left the service as a Chief Warrant
Officer.
Okay, as a helicopter pilot, what was your single
most important contribution in the American
Forces, in your opinion? I believe it was the
ability to provide mobility to the ground forces.
It enabled us to eliminate a lot of the mistakes of
the French at the military level, though I think at
the political level we made a lot of the same
mistakes.
Individually, it allowed
us to develop tactics and lessons learned which
has enabled us currently to counter a lot of our
potential adversaries, conventional weapons
threats, armor especially.
I can't say individually where I had any great
contributions other than learning the tactics,
becoming an instructor, and then passing those on
to men between tours, and I felt that that probably
saved a lot of lives because the military, as
usual, is slow to respond. So a lot of us knew that
the school solution was not the right answer. And
as a result, we taught the young men the lessons
that we had learned in Vietnam and better prepared
the second generation of pilots that had to go over
there. I believe the mobility. So do you think
there would have been a drastic difference in the
way the war was fought without the use of the
helicopter? Yes, and it
might have been better because during the Vietnam
War, terrain, seizing and holding terrain, was
not as important to us as it had been in earlier
wars. Such as Korea? Well, such as Korea, such as
the French Indochina War in World War II, That was
one of our blessings, but it may have been a curse
because we didn't secure, quotes, military lines
of communication. And as a result, a lot of gaps
were left that allowed the guerrilla army and
later the North Vietnamese army using guerrilla
tactics to pretty well move at will, especially at
night. It also left a lot of villages susceptible
to the influence of those armies. The local cadres
were decimated in Tet, yet this absence of our
controlling completely the lines of
communications and holding terrain allowed the
infiltration of North Vietnamese army units to
completely maintain their domination
in certain areas. over the local population. Now,
the blessings I'd have it was by our being able to
move, not be restricted to roads, rail, etc. It
held the casualties down considerably. I'm
convinced that if it hadn't been for the
helicopter, one of two things would have
happened. We would have left very early, or we
would have escalated the war to a greater
conflict,
quite possibly even tried tactical nukes,
because in those days the thinking was that they
were a useful weapon.
I don't believe we would have politically
withstood something along the lines of the French
casualty rate in their war in Indochina. I don't
believe that we would have politically withstood
a Dien Bien Phu. And given the climate prior to
1969, I think that a major defeat for American
forces in Vietnam would have led to an American
outcry to escalate, not as later. This slow
bleeding process and the news bringing that into
the rooms every night led to an anti-war feeling. I
think that the shock of a major defeat would have
been much like the shock of Pearl Harbor or a major
battle in Europe. I see. So the use of the
helicopter, its importance is a lot more I think it
basically allowed the Vietnam War to go on for 10
years. It's a lot more important than it appeared
to be. It was more than just a piece of machinery.
Yes, it was not an ambulance. In the early days, we
learned to fight with it and turned it into a very,
very good fighting platform, a good
transportation platform, and a good civil
platform. One of the outgrowths today of that war
is the abundance of helicopter pilots,
helicopter-oriented individuals in the
American civil community. And as a result, you've
got all of the life flights, the care flights, the
ability to exploit the oil offshore, things that
were not possible in the mid-'60s. These are a
direct result of the war. The bad thing is is that
transportation ability allowed us to avoid a
major defeat because we could extract our forces
very quickly. or rapidly reinforce our forces
very quickly. As a result, we very seldom suffered
a defeat above the company level. As a matter of
fact, we did not suffer a single military defeat at
the battle or campaign level during the war.
That's all because of the helicopter. The French
lost regiments. Between Mangyang Pass and
Pleiku, where I was stationed, the 2nd Korea
Regiment, after the French withdrawal had begun,
practically decimated in that 20-mile, 25-mile
stretch of road. And then as they tried to retreat
south, they were further beat up. I saw parts of
their armored vehicles laying in the jungle when I
was over there fighting in 67. and this had
occurred several years before. They did not have
the helicopter to the extent that we did, even
though they did originally try to arm it, and they
used it for some medical evacuation. So the
Americans protected it basically? I think that we
kept our infantry in Vietnam from 1964, 65, until
1973 at a basic no-win, no-defeat level. because
of the ability of the helicopter to maneuver our
troops. I think had we not had the helicopter, the
decision would have had to been made very early,
win it or lose it. It allowed our political people
to maintain a, quote, acceptable casualty level
over a long period of time without committing the
national will to either victory or to cut their
losses. So I believe that that small group of
chopper pilots were... were the reasons that we
held out so long, reasons our casualties were so
low. And for your information, we've gathered
data since to kind of prove the theory of that war.
Now, what we did, though, was one in five of us died
on the first tour. And one in three of us died if we
served two tours. That's a hell of a price to pay
among the best young men the country has, because
the military pilot requirements require the
absolute brightest and best physical
people. Anything else? Were there any policies or
rules of any sort that you felt restricted you,
made you incapable? Very restricted policies. We
understood them, but they were very restrictive.
In 1967, at least in the two core area, and this was
general policy of the 17th Aviation Group and I
believe the 1st Aviation Brigade.
It was definite policy of my battalion, the 52nd.
We could not return fire when we were being fired on
if we were in certain areas. Now we did have those
areas that were known as free fire zones. Those are
areas that the Vietnamese authorities and the
military had made a sweep, had removed the people.
or at least those that wanted to come out. And
activity in that area was considered completely
enemy activity. And the area around Pleiku, a lot
of it is jungle. Now, Pleiku sits on a high plateau,
plain-type area, but it ends in mountains all
around it. And those vary from 5 or 10 miles. For
instance, the Yadrang Valley is just about a 10- to
15-minute flight southwest from Camp Holloway at
Pleiku. That's how close we were to a battle you may
be familiar with. It was the first big battle
involving American forces. Doctoe was 25 minutes
north.
The area called Dragon Mountain, we called it
Titty Mountain. The newspapers named it Dragon
Mountain, and the 4th Division named it Dragon
Mountain because they didn't like our name for it.
Uh, the, these are, these are battles, uh,
cheerio. Uh, the, the, these valleys are, are just
minutes away from camp Holloway play coup. And as a
result, our battalion thought in all of those
engagements, but there are a lot of villages
around there. Many of these villages are more
friendly and for the most part, very, very
friendly to the American forces. I went down one
time with absolutely nothing on board because
toward the end of my tour I was doing a test flight
and had gone out to do a visual reconnaissance for
the battalion intelligence and had an engine
failure. I went down by this mountain yard
village. The deadliest thing I had on board was a
P-38 can opener. I mean, these people could have
killed us. They didn't. They came out and were real
friendly. Next day I dropped them some parachute
claw. The business that every village and
everybody considered the people on the ground as
hostile was not true, at least among the
helicopter pilots. But we did get shot at from the
ground. And we knew there were a lot of areas and a
lot of villages that were hostile to us to some
degree. But what would happen is the North
Vietnamese, and it was primarily NVA in my area,
would move in near a village and shoot at us and want
us to strafe, want us to fire back because they knew
that we would, our weapon systems weren't precise
enough to pick out a single individual. We would
pick out a single area with rockets or a single area
with machine guns. And so they knew that we would
create casualties. As a result, our commanders
issued orders and very strictly enforced those
orders. We had one guy strafe a Buddhist temple
once because he had been fired up. We'd been
getting fired up by this, around this temple for
days. Every time we would fly past, I'd been shot at
there. Old Jim got hit one day. His aircraft got
hit. He loaded, or unloaded on him. And the
commander got very upset. Jim's attitude was,
sir, when they shooted me that often, shame on
them. He put a stop to it. Nothing happened, but as a
general rule, especially at night, getting fired
on from known village areas, we didn't return
fire, and any number of pilots had that.
Can I give you an instance? Let's see what that
question is. Just an example. Can I give an
example? when I felt powerless to do anything. I
don't think you'll like this answer because it's
not politically a Vietnam answer per se. 1975,
when I saw those tanks rolling down in the news
film, rolling down from the north and watching the
south collapse, watching the leadership in the
United States fail to do what they promised two
years earlier, which was to commit U.S. bombers to
interdict any major raids to the south. And a few
B-52 raids would have sent the message to the
north. They would have said, oh boy, turned around
and gone back. It took that kind of action to make
them release our prisoners. That same kind of
action would have let them know that we were
serious. The French-trained officer corps at the
very top of the South Vietnamese Army was as
corrupt as the French Army was in 1940 because the
same colonial officers basically still ran the
damn thing and trained these people. Most of the
officers, the high-ranking officers, were
French trained. Now, at the colonel level and
lieutenant colonel level and below, American
trained officers were beginning to move up. At the
major level and below, almost every one of them was
American trained. And what had happened there is
friends of mine in the Vietnamese services woke
up, they were captains and majors, and they said, I
woke up in Da Nang one morning and I was the highest
ranking officer there. The colonels and the
generals had left. They'd gotten the word. So, my
most helpless feeling was to sit there and watch
that country fall. And the words of our president
and our country committed to two years earlier,
albeit we were involved in a Watergate-type
situation, it was pretty well over with, and we had
an interim government, if you will, under Nixon's
predecessor. There was no willingness to keep
that commitment. to watch these people fleeing
south by the thousands, jamming the roads, not
just the military, but thousands of civilians
moving south. These people didn't want the
communists. They saw the communists at Hue in
1968. They saw the communists, for the most part,
in the north after the French. But to sit there and
watch them come south, And no, there's not a damn
thing you can do about it. There's not a thing your
government's going to do about it. I'm not saying
we should have recommitted the draftees. By now,
we had a ground army in the Arvins that were
trained. They had some good leaders and they had
some bad leaders. But an infantryman is as good as
his leadership. Anyone who ever tells you
Vietnamese can't fight doesn't understand
leadership. The North Vietnamese and the South
Vietnamese are the same people. That was going to
be my next question. What you thought about the
Army? Well, I'll get to that in just a minute. I want
to finish my helpless feet. To watch this come
south and then to take a look at people you've known
and to realize what they're getting into, to see
the South fall and to know that leaders such as the
infantry colonel who realized all was lost. He
could have very easily done like a lot of them did
and got on a plane, but he felt like someone had to
uphold the honor and he went out in front of the
statue of the unknown soldier and put a bullet in
his head. To see dedicated people like that
betrayed
by a group of what I call political opportunists
who started Using the anti-war sentiment in the
late 60s to gain political power by the mid-70s, to
watch that occur here reminded me a lot of what I've
read about the Weimar Republic in Germany toward
the end and afterward of the First World War. It was
a very helpful speech and one I'll never forget,
one I don't intend to ever let my sons participate
in. You know my sons and you know the way they've
been been taught, you know, that they take
nobody's word for anything. They go get original
references where possible, read them and examine
them. Could not be another generation if I could
help. Let me be involved. And the colonels and
generals of today are the lieutenants and
captains of yesterday. And you can see the
distrust they had, even with the crappy little job
they were given. Take out this little Banana
Republic. They went down and they did it. They did
it very quickly with a minimum expenditure of
life. They allowed no reporters and no political
interference once the decision was done until the
job was over. I think that is another tragedy of
Vietnam. It put a distrust between our military
leadership and some of the political and media
types. I think we'll suffer from that until the
Vietnam generation of officers are retired, and
maybe longer. That was helpless. That was not in
combat. Helpless feelings in combat is when
you're sitting there and mortar shells and
rockets are raining down and you don't have an
airplane under your butt so you can move and
maneuver. I feel totally helpless.
Different people that served in Vietnam have
different things to say about Arvin. Some say they
were dedicated. Some say they weren't. I have had a
lot of people talk about the Arvin. And when you
start asking them where they were and what they
were doing, you find out they were with American
units engaged in areas where there were no Arvin.
Or they were looking at the Arvin militia. Arvin
was just like us. He had good leaders. He had bad
leaders. He had his callies, and he had his heroes.
And at the soldier level, the Arvins were draftees
for the most part. Some were led by competent NCOs,
and some were led by absolute disasters, just as we
had in our Army and the draftee army. Some of their
officers would not have made a squad leader, and
some were absolutely brilliant. In general, I
would say that when the Arvin was properly led by
competent officers that he had faith in, he was as
tough as any soldier over there. I'll give you an
example of that. The Arvin Marines. When the South
fell, the Arvin, I say Arvin in general, meaning
all military, the Arvin Marine Brigade and its
commander went to the bush en masse. and refused to
surrender. It took them until 1980 for the Reds to
dig all those boys out of the trees. My Vietnamese
friends in this country have shown me videotapes
of convoys of Soviet and American trucks moving
down roads in the Delta and little guys in black
pajamas coming out of those woods and just
decimating that convoy. And those little guys in
black pajamas this time were pro-American. And
these enlisted men knew that very little would
happen to them. The MCOs knew that they might get
their hands slapped. The officers knew that they
would probably be shot or imprisoned. But nobody
forced these young men to go with their officers.
You know, the war was over, guys. Come on in. Yet
they went.
The point is, in general, when he was properly led,
he was a good soldier. When he was properly led by
North Vietnamese cadre, he was a damn good
soldier. He fought tenaciously. We fought
Vietnamese. So to paint the Arvin as a coward who
ran and hid, it's not true. When he was properly
led, properly trained, he was good. The problem
was the training was sporadic, and a lot of the
officers were corrupt. A lot of the officers were
corrupt. The percentages were not as high as the
American newspapers would have you believe. I've
met very many officers out of England, and you knew
they weren't corrupt. And yet, then you meet some
young field-grade major over here who had a
political rank and maybe worked in some district,
and you couldn't get the sorry bastard out of his
bunker. He would send his people out. Well, I
wouldn't follow a leader like that either. And I
wouldn't risk my life for a leader like that.
Tell me about some of your relationships with the
Vietnamese people there. In the area that I was in
Pleiku, the only relationship I had with the local
Vietnamese, as opposed to the Montagnard, were
the people who were on post. And in general, I felt
very sorry for them because of the circumstances.
Having served my first military tour to Korea as a
younger man, I had developed an affinity for
picking up some languages and an empathy for the
Oriental people, an admiration. I mean, people
who can take a light bulb that you throw away and
make a watch crystal out of it, who can take a gun
barrel that you think is burned out put one man on
it, polish it up, and have it working. I mean, these
people are pretty darn good. I like the Mountain
Yard. I really like it. I guess it was because of the
tribal primitiveness of them. I mean, I felt they
were kind of unspoiled, and I kind of watched them
over the course of the war become spoiled. And I
thought about the American Indian and how close
they resembled what I had read about the American
Indian. And I liked them. I admired those that came
here. I tried to help. And I get along very well in
the community of the Vietnamese today because of
the activities and friendships I made in those
days. Recently, my wife and I were invited to a
Vietnamese wedding. It was from the former
Vietnamese Air Force Association.
Us and two others were the only Caucasian couples
there out of 200 people. When the former
Vietnamese Air Force went national recently,
myself an Air Force Brigadier and an Air Force
Colonel were invited over for the initiation and
had some of the former leadership of South
Vietnam. Not that I like them that much at the time
and don't respect them today. With some
exceptions I do, but General Key was there. I
didn't particularly care for Key then and I don't
like him now. He was one of those French trained
types that I didn't respect, but he was a good
fighter. Nobody ever called him a coward. General
Lone, the guy that put the bullet in the spy's head,
I was the guest at his table.
That was on national television with this bullet.
Maybe you'd like to hear the story behind that
bullet. Okay. I asked General Lone what he would do
different. And he said he would take the film.
And... As a general officer, General Lone was not
political. It's pretty obvious he wasn't
political because he shot the man on national
television. He was not political, but he was very
well respected by the South Vietnamese because he
was an airborne general and he came up the hard way
and made no pretense of anything other than a
combat infantryman. Now, at the time, he was in
charge of the Saigon police because it was a
military emergency. This innocent civilian,
this guy in civilian clothes that got a bullet in
the head, was a North Vietnamese Army lieutenant
who had just led a unit that had just slaughtered
the family of General Loan's aide. He had been
caught. He was brought in. And they said, this is
the one. And as General Loan said, I am a general
officer authorized to conduct a summary court
under emergency conditions, and I conducted it.
And he shot the man, and that is why nobody has ever
brought that man up on war crafts. Every military
officer in the world knows that an enemy officer in
civilian clothes who has just committed an
atrocity, I'm not talking about blowing up a
military installation. The man slaughtered a
guy's family, for God's sakes.
has the right to execute that individual whether
the trial takes three days three years or three
minutes is up to the convening officer and that's
that general i'm sure that if it hadn't been his aid
that the man had shot and the family of his aid that
the man had shot then i'm sure the general would
quite probably have told him to take him over and
use a firing squad But this was such an atrocity to
this general that he personally took his pistol
and killed the man. Kind of the spur of the moment.
Not spur of the moment. I'm sure he was that angry.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, it may have been spur of the moment,
but he wasn't political. It was within his right.
He executed a spy. Now, whether he pulled the
trigger himself or had it done by 12 good men tried
and true over here is not the point. He had the
authority. He exercised that authority. That's
why he's never been brought up as a war criminal.
And you've never heard an outcry other than the
political press. There's never been a formal
diplomatic or military outcry for that man to be
court-martialed. And he was left in this country.
Getting a little low on tape, we'll turn it over.
Okay, let's just change it up a little bit and talk
about chemical weapons. Okay. I know you work with
chemical weapons now. I work with Defense Against
Chemical Weapons. Defense Against Chemical
Weapons. Okay. You know something about them. Why
don't you... Tell me about some different types of
chemicals used in Vietnam and what the purposes
were. Well, we'd first off have to define
chemical, but if you consider napalm a chemical,
that was used on occasion, used in flamethrowers
also. By the way, the North Vietnamese had good
flamethrowers. They cooked a bunch of villagers
just south of my base one time.
They didn't have the planes down there to deliver
the napalm, but an individual spraying it kills
them just as dead, maybe not as many. But getting
into the chemicals, CS gas mostly, kind of a
powerful tear gas. They used it, we used it. The
other chemical we used was at that time called
defoliant, and I heard the term Agent Orange
between tours. First tour when we had it, it was
simply called defoliant. It had an orange thing on
top of the barrel, so that's where it got its name.
We weren't trained in its use. We were told to put it
in these tanks and go out and spray it on the trees
around the fire bases and clear the fire bases.
Now, the Air Force Ranch Hand Program was clear in
the jungle. We were just clearing 500-meter
strips around fire bases with it. Basically, a
mixture of 2,4-D and 2,4-5-T, which is used in our
rice country. 2,4-D is used, 2,4-5-T, but they're
not used full strength. The problem is in the
manufacture of this agent during the war, they
left out a key quality control step. As they were
running it through, the process dioxin buildup
occurs. And the dioxin could be as small as five
parts per billion. Or in some cases, they've
analyzed barrels of it and found it as high. And
this is not generally published, to my knowledge,
168 parts per million. which means it's extremely
toxic. And because of the shoddy quality control
done by the chemical manufacturer and the United
States government, we sprayed a poison that had
been considered safe when it was used as 2,4-D and
2,4-5-T. Because in the manufacturing process
for the government, they left out those quality
control steps that allowed the dioxin buildup.
Dioxin is one of the byproducts of this
manufacturer, as I understand it. I'm not
completely familiar with that. But that
particular piece was shoddy manufacturing
processes. And as a result, no one really thought
it was that harmful. But one of us always wore a gas
mask when we were spraying it, just in case the tank
was ruptured and the stuff came around. And I've
seen it come, you know, take the paint off the tail
boom of my helicopter. And I've come back with My
uniform saturated with the stuff because we flew
with the doors open and the windows open and stuff
like that when we were dropping, so you'd fly back
through your own mist a lot of times. We would empty
that same container, put spray in it, DDT, and go
spray the troops for mosquito control. We were our
own worst enemies in chemical warfare there
because we sprayed our own troops. We never
sprayed Charlie. Occasionally, if we had any
left, we would go out and spray Charlie's rice
crop, where the intelligence officer had told us
to, but that was about two or three missions, and we
found we were getting fired at so bad, and we had
slicks at the time, not gunships, we carried these
tanks in, that we told the chemical officer and the
intelligence officer that if they wanted that
damn stuff dropped, on those farms out there, then
they were going to have to provide gunship escort
because those farmers didn't want their rice
crops to break. And so we didn't go do that very
often after that.
Chemicals, I had several experiences with tear
gas, ours and theirs, ours being some of our troops
would toss tear gas. We had tear gas in the
perimeter. Lightning would hit during the
monsoon. and set off several containers of tear
gas, or these containers would fire tear gas out.
Those would go off. Several claymore mines would
go off. Occasionally, a thing called fugas, which
is a napalm mixture, would go off. Now, the other
chemical agent that was used was phosphorus,
white phosphorus. Used them as smoke shells to
mark artillery rounds. That's what we used for
spotter. And God help the poor son of a gun that got
phosphorus on him. If our artillery was accurate
on him at the first round, then he really got hurt.
As far as this chemical warfare of germ warfare
agents, as far as chemical warfare in the terms of
poison gases, those were not used, at least not to
my knowledge. And I've never found anyone who
knows they were. That goes back to the Korean War.
when the Chinese sanitary conditions were
causing such tremendous losses among their
forces. Their propaganda was, it's not us that's
doing it. It's the germ warfare of the Americans
and the chemical warfare of the Americans. The
people who've used chemical warfare, I'm talking
about lethal agents, have been the Soviets. Our
army is still to this day not geared to do it. That's
why I'm working to try to build a defense for it. You
don't use the stuff if you can't defend yourself
against it, your own stuff. But the Soviet army has
always been able to do that, and all of their
surrogate states have, and as a result, around the
world. Since 1963 in Yemen, with the Soviet
surrogates of the day, Egypt, they've used lethal
agents, primarily mustard and carbon. That's
blister gas and nerve gas. So that's the sum total
of my chemical warfare. In Vietnam, we used tear
gas a lot. We would use tear gas to run them out of
caves. We would use tear gas to flush them out of
villages and bunkers near villages. And to me,
using tear gas on a village to flush people out and
try to catch them is a lot more humane than going in
and putting napalm on the whole damn village.
Because sooner or later, you've got to make a
decision of how many more men are going to die
because of that machine gun nest. When that
decision's made, you're going to take out that
machine gun nest or you're going to quit that pipe,
one of the two. Were the benefits of using
chemicals that great in Vietnam? I mean, looking
back on it now compared to the past. Looking back on
it, I ended up with soft tissue tumor, as you well
know, and I laid a lot of it back to the dioxin. But I
think We started using it, well, the high command,
I'm sure, started using defoliants to defoliate
problem areas that they would take tremendous
casualties in. The Iron Triangle was practically
all defoliated. That was the Ranch Hand Project.
They went in after that and used their own plows to
knock down the sticks because these were hiding
places for the enemy units that were threatening
Saigon. In our area where it was used, it was used to
clear... areas around the fire bases. And this
wasn't used around every fire base, depending on
how long they planned to stay there. Around Chia
Rio, for instance, is where I used a lot of it to
clear two or three places around Chia Rio. And it
was very effective. It meant that that unit had a
clear field where they could have some hope of
seeing. You have to understand the North
Vietnamese soldier was a very good jungle
fighter. By that I mean he was a master at
camouflage. He lived in that damn jungle and our
people didn't. And he could move through that
jungle very quietly, very patiently when he
wanted to. And so with our policy of building these
little fire bases, miniature forts, The
perimeter of that fort quotes or the outpost 50
meters away was the outer line of defense. And if
that outer line of defense, if you've only cleaned
out that one area and your outer line of defense now
stops at brush and scrub 20 and 30 feet high. You've
left an area there where you have an entire
regiment crawl upon you before you even know
they're there. So we cleared these fields of fire,
these areas around the bases. And so I think it was
very good. I blame our own people, whether they are
engineers in the chemical companies or whether
they are purchasing people in the US government
for allowing the dioxin buildup. They never
allowed that combination to go to the commercial
farmer without checking that step in the quality
control process yet, just because they were going
to drop it on the enemy in the jungle. They never
made that check. And the dioxin buildup is causing
casualties to this day in some people, I believe.
OK.
I'm going to switch the tone again. What do you
think of Johnson's? Johnson's campaign after 64
for 64 we had a saying and we laughed about it in
Vietnam you have to understand I was in the
military and I voted for Goldwater at that time but
the saying was you know if you if you vote for
Goldwater you'll be at war in six months and once we
got to Vietnam the guy said you know They told me if I
voted for Goldwater, I was going to be at war in six
months. By God, I voted for Goldwater, and here I
am. They were right. So I didn't like Johnson. I
didn't like Johnson's
talking down to the American people when he was
addressing them. I felt Vietnam was necessary in
the beginning. I didn't like the way the war was
being conducted. By that I mean no wind policy uh
the the restrictions on firing i can understand
the initial restrictions but the bombing halls
the the slow build up build up give them a chance to
respond instead of coming in there with a massive
uh and i don't mean commit the entire american
population but enough firepower in the right
places to do the job the damn targets for the Air
Force was being picked in Washington and it was
being picked as much on political grounds as
military grounds and to risk the lives of all of
those hundreds and thousands of young men for
political targets, meaning go out and bomb rice
paddies instead of bombing the dikes and knocking
out their agricultural economy, bombing their
ports and closing that off and bringing that war to
a halt rather quickly.
They dragged it out because they were, quote,
afraid of the Soviet Union might intervene,
afraid that China might intervene. Feathers. We
knew at the time their economies wouldn't stand
it. They had proven to us three years earlier at the
Bay of Pig, or correction, at the Cuban crisis.
They didn't want a major war with the United
States. And as long as we didn't invade the North
and try to occupy the North, but only prevent the
North from taking over the South, it would have
been status quo. Johnson's lack of political will
and leadership, I'm convinced, doomed 55,000
Americans to die and close to half a million to be
wounded because the war dragged out so long.
People say that it was... It was Johnson's
personal war. What do you think of that? Well, it
was being directed for the most part. I think he had
delusions of being a Churchill the way he had his,
from what I can understand, his bunker set up under
the White House there with his little war
situation room. I don't know this.
But when those kind of decisions are made, And they
still commit Americans. Or we would effectively
stop the enemy flow of supplies. Allow the
interdiction. Stop the flow of supplies. And then
the North would say, we'd like to talk. We'd stop
our bombing. They'd build up their supplies. Then
they'd go back to fighting. We'd start bombing
again. We'd like to talk. About the second time
they did that, he should have said, OK, talk. But he
should have kept bombing. He didn't. I blame
McNamara. McNamara almost decimated the officer
corps of the United States. The high ranking
officers who were good leaders were replaced,
forced to resign during the course of that war. The
Westmoreland, I don't have a lot of respect for
Westmoreland. I like the man. I guess I've heard
him speak. He seemed like a nice individual. He did
not have the military guts to stand up, resign, and
go public. He had the likes of McNamara, who admits
he had made his decision in 67 that the war was
unwinnable, yet he didn't quit in 67. He didn't
even attempt to win it or to notify the people to
back down. He kept acquiescing.
His lack of political will, Wes Moreland's lack of
it, I was very disappointed in that. Let's flip the
tape over here.